- https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2018/12/contents/enacted

Everyone responsible for using personal data has to follow strict rules called ‘data protection principles’. They must make sure the information is:
- used fairly, lawfully and transparently
- used for specified, explicit purposes
- used in a way that is adequate, relevant and limited to only what is necessary
- accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date
- kept for no longer than is necessary
- handled in a way that ensures appropriate security, including protection against unlawful or unauthorized processing, access, loss, destruction or damage

There is stronger legal protection for more sensitive information, such as:
- race
- ethnic background
- political opinions
- religious beliefs
- trade union membership
- genetics
- biometrics (where used for identification)
- health
- sex life or orientation

There are separate safeguards for personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences.

### Your rights

Under the Data Protection Act 2018, you have the right to find out what information the government and other organizations store about you. 
These include the right to:
- be informed about how your data is being used
- access personal data
- have incorrect data updated
- have data erased
- stop or restrict the processing of your data
- data portability (allowing you to get and reuse your data for different services)
- object to how your data is processed in certain circumstances

You also have rights when an organization is using your personal data for:
- automated decision-making processes (without human involvement)
- profiling, for example to predict your behavior or interests


          
### Find out what data an organization has about you

Write to an organization to ask for a copy of the information they hold about you.
- If it’s a public organization, write to their Data Protection Officer (DPO).

Their details should be on the organization’s privacy notice.
- If the organization has no DPO, or you do not know who to write to, address your letter to the company secretary.

### How long it should take

The organization must give you a copy of the data they hold about you as soon as possible, and within 1 month at most.
In certain circumstances, for example particularly complex or multiple requests, the organization can take a further 2 months to provide data. In this case, they must tell you:
- within 1 month of your request
- why there’s a delay


### When information can be withheld

There are some situations when organizations are allowed to withhold information, for example if the information is about:
- the prevention, detection or investigation of a crime
- national security or the armed forces
- the assessment or collection of tax
- judicial or ministerial appointments

An organization does not have to say why they’re withholding information.

### How much it costs

Requests for information are usually free. 
However, organizations can charge an administrative cost in some circumstances, for example if:
- you’re asking for a large amount of information
- your request will take a lot of time and effort to process


          
Make a complaint:

- If you think your data has been misused or that the organization holding it has not kept it secure, you should contact them and tell them.
- If you’re unhappy with their response or if you need any advice you should contact the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
