## Liking

 - People are more prone to be influenced by things or people that they like.
 - People like what is aesthetically pleasing. This ranges from physical attractiveness to product design. For instance, the phrase, “Beauty is in the eye of the beholder” rings true here. However, understanding what your target finds physically appealing can be a challenge. For the most part, visually pleasing items are items that people don’t dismiss out of hand, and normally want to interact with more than they otherwise would need to.
 - People like what is familiar to them. New things make the majority of people feel uncomfortable, which leads to the target wanting to withdraw from the situation. To illustrate, think of the phrase “just like mother used to make.” A person associates quality food with food that was consumed early in life, and thus familiar to them. Social engineers take advantage of “liking what is familiar.” For example, they’ll use concepts, languages, and appearances  familiar to the target. (See Pretexting)
 - People like positive reinforcement. When one receives compliments from another, they tend to stay engaged in order to receive more positive reinforcement. These compliments reinforce their self image, making the target feel as if you have a greater than normal understanding of them.

## Obligation

- Obligation has to do with actions one feels they need to take due to some sort of social, legal, or moral requirement, duty, contract, or promise. In the context of social engineering, obligation is closely related to reciprocation but is not limited to it. This can be as simple as holding an outer door for someone will usually make them hold the inner door for you. It can be escalated to someone giving you private info because you create a sense of obligation. This is a common attack vector when targeting customer service people.
- For example, try complimenting the person then follow it up with a request. However, this technique is very easy to do wrong if you are new, or inexperienced. If you’re not careful you can come across fake. But if done properly, it can lead to obtaining even little pieces of information that are valuable. If you treat people kindly and give them something they may need, even if it is as small as a compliment, it can create a sense of obligation to you.
- A final thought on obligation is that even something as small as a question can create obligation. Try this exercise: Next time someone asks you a question, say nothing. Just stay silent or ignore it and move on in the conversation. Notice how awkward that is, because something as simple as a question creates a sense of obligation to answer. Simply asking the target a question, can lead to amazing results. (see Elicitation)

## Reciprocity

- Reciprocity is an expectation that you will treat others the way they treat you. 
- Indeed, reciprocity is based on a universal understanding that people give back to others who have given first. It’s important to realize that this gift doesn’t have to be a physical item. For example, it can be a smile, a compliment, or information. However, what is important is that the gift is valuable to the recipient.
- People should be paid back for what they do. It is this underlying belief in how things should work that allows people in difficult situations to cooperate.

## Scarcity

- Social Engineers may use scarcity to create a feeling of urgency in a decision making context. This urgency can often lead to the manipulation of the decision making process, allowing the social engineer to control the information provided to the victim.
- Social events may appear more exclusive by introducing scarcity to the event. Indeed, the perceived social benefit of attending these events often goes up in these circumstances. For example, ads for music events saying the previous concert sold out, increases the value of attending.
- Social situations also use scarcity to make something one has, go up in value. For instance, a person might act like they are very busy on a regular basis, and free time is hard to come by. Doing so excuses them from  spending time with someone they may have an obligation to. While at the same time making the time they do spend appear more valuable.
- Scarcity can manipulate attention as well. Indeed, people complain about sales people bothering them in a store when there is no scarcity of sales people’s. However, they are upset when they do not receive attention by sales people when they are scarce. To sum up, people are driven to desire what is hard to obtain, because they view it as having more value. This holds true for attention as well.
- As we discussed, scarcity is a belief that something is in short supply or almost gone. Therefore increasing its sense of value. This can be used from a social engineering standpoint in a security test in many ways. Creating a feeling that yourself, service, or document is going to be unavailable unless they accept it now can be a powerful tool in manipulating people into taking the action you want them to take.
